Ra/consumes (#16871)
aspnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/web-api/index.md

::: moniker-end

## Define supported request content types with the [Consumes] attribute

> By default, an action supports all available request content types. For example, if an app is configured to support both JSON and XML [input formatters](xref:mvc/models/model-binding#input-formatters), an action supports multiple content types, including `application/json` and `application/xml`.

Author: Is by default correct? I didn't understand @serpent5  version which is  "Without further configuration,"

Reviewer: Yeah, sorry, my wording was clunky. By default seems better to me.

Author: @serpent5  really nice work on your part. This seems to be very useful.

> The [`[Consumes]`](<xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.ConsumesAttribute>) attribute allows an action to limit the supported request content types. Apply the `[Consumes]` attribute to an action or controller, specifying one or more content types:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [[Consumes]](<xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.ConsumesAttribute>) attribute allows an action to limit the supported request content types. Apply the `[Consumes]` attribute to an action or controller, specifying one or more content types:
```

```csharp
[HttpPost]
[Consumes("application/xml")]
public IActionResult CreateProduct(Product product)
```

> In the preceding code, the `CreateProduct` action specifies the content type  `application/xml`. Requests routed to this action must specify a `Content-Type` header of `application/xml`. Requests that do not specify a `Content-Type` header of `application/xml` result in a [415 Unsupported Media Type](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/415) response.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the preceding code, the `CreateProduct` action specifies the content type `application/xml`. Requests routed to this action must specify a `Content-Type` header of `application/xml`. Requests that don't specify a `Content-Type` header of `application/xml` result in a [415 Unsupported Media Type](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/415) response.
```

The `[Consumes]` attribute also allows an action to influence its selection based on an incoming request's content type by applying a type constraint. Consider the following example:

[!code-csharp[](index/samples/3.x/Controllers/ConsumesController.cs?name=snippet_Class)]

In the preceding code, `ConsumesController` is configured to handle requests sent to the `https://localhost:5001/api/Consumes` URL. Both of the controller's actions, `PostJson` and `PostForm`, handle POST requests with the same URL. Without the `[Consumes]` attribute applying a type constraint, an ambiguous match exception is thrown.

> The `[Consumes]` attribute is applied to both actions. The `PostJson` action handles requests sent with a `Content-Type` header of `application/json` The `PostForm` action handles requests sent with a `Content-Type` header of `application/x-www-form-urlencoded`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `[Consumes]` attribute is applied to both actions. The `PostJson` action handles requests sent with a `Content-Type` header of `application/json`. The `PostForm` action handles requests sent with a `Content-Type` header of `application/x-www-form-urlencoded`. 
```

Missing `.` to end the second sentence.
